README.md, before:

# sdzoom: Optimize Your Stable Diffusion Pipelines
### Author: aifartist (Dan Wood)

Welcome to sdzoom, a testbed application designed for optimizing and experimenting with various configurations to achieve the fastest Stable Diffusion (SD) pipelines.

## RTSD - Real Time Stable Diffusion (v0.0.0.alpha)

RTSD is an application that enables real-time interactions with LCM models. This project is in its early stages and represents a concept brought to life with a couple of days of coding aimed at getting acquainted with HTML and Javascript. The ambition is to introduce more controls and achieve real-time feedback for users.

RTSD leverages the expertise provided by Latent Consistency Models (LCM). For more information about LCM, visit their website at [Latent Consistency Models](https://latent-consistency-models.github.io/).

There is a torch.compile() option that can be found in rtsd.py.  Using it on a setup with a 4090, i9-13900K and Ubuntu 22.04 I can average about 70 to 80 millisecond per image update as you twiddle the knobs.

### Setup Instructions

To get started with RTSD, you will need to set up a Python virtual environment and install the necessary dependencies. Below are step-by-step instructions tailored for Linux environments. If you're on Windows, please ensure you're familiar with setting up a virtual environment (venv) on that platform.

```bash
# Create a virtual environment in the current directory
python3 -m venv ./venv

# Activate the virtual environment
source venv/bin/activate

# Install the required dependencies
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running the Application

To run RTSD, execute the following command, and ensure you have activated the virtual environment as described in the setup instructions.

```bash
python3 rtsd.py
```

After starting the application, connect to it using your web browser by visiting `http://127.0.0.1:5017`.

### Usage Guide

RTSD offers an interactive experience where image adjustments are reflected in real-time. Here’s how to use it:

- Move the sliders, and the image will update instantaneously.
- Provide two prompts, such as "cat" and "dog" or "Emma Watson" and "Tom Cruise".
- Use the "Merge Ratio" slider to blend these prompts.
- Adjust "Guidance" and the number of "Steps" as you would typically do with SD. More steps generally lead to a clearer image.

RTSD initializes with a fixed seed value, providing consistency that allows for better comparison of images as you tweak settings. If you wish to use a different seed, you can click the "New Seed" button to generate a new one.

Enjoy experimenting with RTSD, and we welcome your feedback and ideas to enhance this tool further!
[Screencast from 11-06-2023 10:48:28 PM.webm](https://github.com/aifartist/sdzoom/assets/116415616/940f0dd8-eba3-4295-a0d6-61def5607b9b)

Commit message:

Added a new demo for max txt2img perf without a gui. Also, more code cleanup.

README.md, after:

# sdzoom: Optimize Your Stable Diffusion Pipelines
### Author: aifartist (Dan Wood)

Welcome to sdzoom, a testbed application designed for optimizing and experimenting with various configurations to achieve the fastest Stable Diffusion (SD) pipelines.

## txt2img.py - Generate 100 images as fast as possible using LCM.
My best is under 4.5 seconds.  Follow the setup instructions below for RTSD and then run:
```
python3 txt2img.py
```
and look for the images in the txtimg subdirectory.  Every run overwrites the previous images.  This is a demo of raw performance and not a polished app.  If you edit the code to increase the number of steps(nSteps) the image quality will improve.  If you set doCompile=True the time goes from about 60ms per image to 45ms.

## RTSD - Real Time Stable Diffusion (v0.0.0.alpha)

RTSD is an application that enables real-time interactions with LCM models. This project is in its early stages and represents a concept brought to life with a couple of days of coding aimed at getting acquainted with HTML and Javascript. The ambition is to introduce more controls and achieve real-time feedback for users.

RTSD leverages the expertise provided by Latent Consistency Models (LCM). For more information about LCM, visit their website at [Latent Consistency Models](https://latent-consistency-models.github.io/).

There is a torch.compile() option that can be found in rtsd.py.  Using it on a setup with a 4090, i9-13900K and Ubuntu 22.04 I can average about 85 millisecond per image update as you twiddle the knobs.

COMPILE MYSTERY:  Without compile you may see the generations taking about 320ms per screen update.  txt2img without compile should be closer to 100ms.  It is unclear why it is so slow when done in this webserver.  TODO: Instrument and figure it out.

### Setup Instructions

To get started with RTSD, you will need to set up a Python virtual environment and install the necessary dependencies. Below are step-by-step instructions tailored for Linux environments. If you're on Windows, please ensure you're familiar with setting up a virtual environment (venv) on that platform.

```bash
# Get the code
git clone https://github.com/aifartist/sdzoom
cd sdzoom

# Create a virtual environment in the current directory
python3 -m venv ./venv

# Activate the virtual environment
source venv/bin/activate

# Install the required dependencies
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

### Running the Application

To run RTSD, execute the following command, and ensure you have activated the virtual environment as described in the setup instructions.

```bash
python3 rtsd.py
```

After starting the application, connect to it using your web browser by visiting `http://127.0.0.1:5017`.

### Usage Guide

RTSD offers an interactive experience where image adjustments are reflected in real-time. Here’s how to use it:

- Move the sliders, and the image will update instantaneously.
- Provide two prompts, such as "cat" and "dog" or "Emma Watson" and "Tom Cruise".
- Use the "Merge Ratio" slider to blend these prompts.
- Adjust "Guidance" and the number of "Steps" as you would typically do with SD. More steps generally lead to a clearer image.

RTSD initializes with a fixed seed value, providing consistency that allows for better comparison of images as you tweak settings. If you wish to use a different seed, you can click the "New Seed" button to generate a new one.

Enjoy experimenting with RTSD, and we welcome your feedback and ideas to enhance this tool further!
[Screencast from 11-06-2023 10:48:28 PM.webm](https://github.com/aifartist/sdzoom/assets/116415616/940f0dd8-eba3-4295-a0d6-61def5607b9b)
